That is the end of the complete
Intro To React version 7,
you now have all the tools
that you need and
some additional ones to build
basically any react application.
Now you notice that like there's
a lot of stuff in here that react
just doesn't care about.
But for the most part, it doesn't
really care about Routers, right?
You need something like React Router, or
doesn't care about like data storage or
data fetching or anything like that.
That's all stuff that
react basically says like,
we just take care of
rendering the UI layer.
Everything else is up to you.
As opposed to something like ember
where there's like, ember models and
Ember Router and
a bunch of stuff in there.
So, That's something for you to go to
discover and make your own opinions about.
I prefer it that way cuz I like to kind
of put together the set of tools to build
whatever application I need.
And kind of have the minimal
set as opposed to bring in,
here's the entire structure
to the building, good luck.
Right, I was never a Rails person for
that matter [LAUGH] for the same reason,
Rails is great and if you have a Rails
developer that's very talented,
they can go faster than I can undoubtedly,
I just don't like the black magic.
Yeah, scares me, anyway,
so the first thing,
I gave you a couple of suggestions
of like where to go from here now,
the first one is definitely,
take the intermediate course, right?
Cuz I go into like a bunch of
more stuff in terms of like.
All the ecosystem tailwind, CSS,
TypeScript, testing, Redux,
server side rendering, code splitting,
a bunch of stuff that like,
will be really useful for either making
your application more performant or
like building larger scale applications,
so.
I would suggest that,
I think it's a good course.
One thing that we didn't do is we
didn't paginate the results, so oops,
if you're going to adoptme.com,
if there's more than 10 results,
we didn't paginate that so
I would suggest that.
That's a good kind of like stretch goal
for you to learn how to go forward and
go backwards and keep track of state and
all that kind of stuff.
Use a real API so we're using like
a fake API that the front of masters and
I put together but
you can use the Petfinder API and
actually previous versions of
this course did used to do that,
we overwhelmed them with how many
people were requesting API keys.
So we stopped doing that.
But you if you feel like it can hop
over here, you go to the Petfinder for
Developers, you can get an API key.
True story people have actually adopted
animals because of this course.
So I try and keep that going.
So that's a good idea.
They're free API keys,
they're super nice people.
There's like a nice SDK now.
I actually like had to build an SDK for
this class previously.
There was one time that they blocked all
our entire like I was teaching this live
and they blocked everybody.
That was a bad day.
We actually had to reshoot
the course cuz it was that bad.
But yeah, their API is kind of unruly,
like this is an example of one
of the response objects from it.
So they give you a lot of information.
Okay, another thing you can
do is deploy your code.
That's always a fun thing to do to
go through the deployment process.
I might gave you the links here to
a bunch of good places to do it.
Use the theme in more
places than just to but
it's probably a good idea,
add a navigation bar we didn't do that,
try switching to a different build
tool like VT or snowpack or ES build.
You can also go like the classics,
right, browser file, Webpack,
Rollup anything like that.
You can try and migrate this to react 18,
it shouldn't be too hard
in his current state.
But then you can start playing
with things like suspension, and
I'll talk a little bit about suspension
in intermediate, but there's a new way
of doing like data loading suspension
which we don't talk about and
we will talk about VA whenever
this that happens 6 months or so.
Actually might have on here if
you wanna kinda of preview,
I did so I put with 18 here.
So if you look at this,
you can go through the lessons here and
I got all the way through rebuilding
this course in version 18 cuz I
thought it would be out by now,
and it's not.
But if you go in here for example,
probably the most interesting thing here
is in react capabilities if
you go in here to suspense,
actually talk about how to build the
details page using React 18 with suspense.
So, I make no warranty if this
is gonna stay up-to-date.
I'm actively not giving you a warranty
that this is gonna stay up-to-date.
But if you wanna see what I wrote and
was going to teach before I switched
everything back to React 17,
this is where it is.
By the same token, I believe that I
did that for the projects as well.
Let me make sure that's
true I did with 18.
So if you wanna look here at portals and
ref 13,
you can see the state of
the project with reacting to you.
So for example here in details, you can
see here I built it with suspense and
what's called the like a resource
loading paradigm using
suspense and stuff like that so
pretty fun stuff.
Again, I make no warranty that
this is gonna be up to date,
V8 of this class will have that stuff
all up to date and ready to teach.
Okay, and
then yeah let me know if you like it.
Please tweet at me, I am the worst at
responding to particularly LinkedIn DMs.
Having worked there, I try and spend
a little time on that website as possible
but definitely public tweets are always
super appreciated start of the repo.
That's always super helpful as well, yeah.
And just thanks for
sticking through the intro.
I'll take the like yeah.
Last sense of questions now.
>> So you had promise to give
us your thoughts on XJS.
>> We're doing shots first though [LAUGH].
Let's talk about like the higher
level frameworks a bid for
react cuz there's a few popular ones.
The most popular one is gonna be next.
Right, Nextjs.
I am a big fan of Nextjs,
your course website here.
This one actually just rewrote Nextjs,
I've been using Gatsby for
3 or 4 years now.
A lot of front of masters websites
that other instructors have made,
I know Gen Z used it.
Think primitive used it once.
Some other of the front of
masters instructors have built
their course websites using
my Gatsby course starter.
And I just rewrote it Nextjs and
it's like 100 times better,
not to say anything Gatsby is terrible,
it has got its own problems.
So all right, let's talk about
when you would use one and
then how you would select it so,
react like I said is fairly opinionated
about the server element of it,
it's fairly opinionated about how to load
data Like how to load data.
It's fairly unopinionated about
kind of all that kind of stuff.
It's really meant to just be like
here's how to render your code, and
it's gonna get out of the way
of doing anything else.
Now, sometimes more opinions are helpful.
If you have a very typical use case like
rendering a blog for example, right,
that's been done so many times and there's
a really optimized way of doing it like
rebuilding the wheel every single
time is not a useful thing.
So something like a higher level framework
like Next can be super helpful about that.
Let's just look at the the code for
the course website.
All I wanted to do is I have
all these lessons here, right?
So if you look at like the,
I don't know one of these.
This is just markdown.
It's got a title and a description
here in the front matter, and
then it's just rendering this stuff
out to kind of a blog post, right,
it's like a blog post that's been
like optimized for courses, right?
Pretty solved problem,
I could have built this all with React and
made my own build process or
I could have done it with parcel.
But why would I do that when
something like Next exists and
it does that already super well, right?
All I had to do here is I had to write
a little bit of a data loader that
took in all of my course information,
that's like my course config data.
This one takes all of my markdown in and
then, renders it out and
then spits it out into a blog post.
And then next has a really cool feature.
Let's see if I can show you in like the
package.json that you just do next build
and next export and it renders everything
out to flat static HTML documents.
Which is awesome because then you can host
all this stuff on GitHub pages which is
totally free, right,
and it never goes down,
then you can take that a step further,
which I did.
And you can build that into
GitHub actions, right?
So then anytime that you push to my repo,
it just rebuilds it and redeploys it.
I don't have to worry about anything.
Everything just works.
So I'm just gonna try to draw an arc
of like how I landed on like,
this is really awesome for Nextjs and
I use Gatsby for years and
I found that the graph QL is awesome, but
it's not a very good abstraction for
re querying against a file system.
So Gatsby's heavily based on graph QL and
it just, it got really finicky and
awkward to work with.
So I preferred to just going back
to working with JavaScript and
reading, using no JS to query the files
as system, which it's very good at.
So, all this to say Nextjs big fan works
really well if you have a, I don't know,
most problems that's probably what
I would start today with if I was
building like a front end,
middle end kind of application.
It's really easy to
write your own API's and
it's just basically express like, right?
I probably wouldn't go back to using
Gatsby after fighting it so many times.
It's just some trauma there
that I have to get over.
[LAUGH] And then the new
player out there is Remix.run.
There's a coming soon course
from Frontend Masters on Remix,
I like to think of after having
actually this is funny too,
I built this course website as
well on remix cuz I wanted to get
more familiar with it,
see if I can show you repositories remix.
Yeah, remix core starter, so
I built my, same lessons here,
same structures and everything like that.
I rebuilt this course
website as well in Remix and
I found that Next just had like
a better fit for it if you're going for
purely static flat documents like
a static site web generation.
Remix actually doesn't support that
which is fine, it just doesn't,
Remix requires its server component,
Next, it's, you can have both
the server side part of it or
you can go for static file generation.
So if I was gonna go build something
like a ecommerce website today,
I'd have a hard time picking
between Remix and the Next.
Personally, I'd probably end up choosing
Next but that's cuz I'm just way more
familiar with it and generally when you're
trying to make money, it's a good idea to
pick things that you know [LAUGH] to focus
on the money part not on the tech part.
But I would have no problem with anyone
coming to as hey we're building this
Remix style run and be great high
fives like let's go do it, right,
it's a pretty cool piece of software but
it's meant to be more like Rails as a more
than it's meant to be like Jekyll, right?
As opposed to Next which is meant to kind
of be either, you can definitely use Next
like Rails and opposed to Gatsby which
is much closer to something like Jekyll.
I think people would guess who would
probably take offense that I said it that
way, but that's how I always used it.
So Gatsby is just so slow.
That's my problem with it, it's like
you rebuild your site it takes forever.
Yeah,
>> And so
now in the last Nextjs
workshop that was done here.
We were shown like how you can
do edge function super easily or
like the serverless stuff,
and that was wild.
>> Yeah.
>> To have just a new like component.
>> So, yes, absolutely.
Remix actually works the same way.
Yeah, it's optimized for
serverless deployments.
So it works on Netlify,
it works on AWS and lambda.
I don't know, what they're doing
about edge stuff at the moment.
I imagine it works on Edge stuffs.
It does, it works on Cloudflare workers,
so it does work on Edge stuff.
Next is heavily optimized obviously for
sell because they are the people
that make it and good for them.
[LAUGH] It's a great business model.
Guillermo is a very smart person.
But yeah, they're both really cheap to run
cuz they'll run in surplus infrastructure.
Yeah, I think I'll leave it at that.
Yeah was that Scott
that taught that class?
>> Yes
>> Scott's my hero
His next course is amazing.
By the way, if you wanna learn about
Nextjs from someone that is truly good at
it, definitely catch Scott's
course on Nextjs Cool,
other questions about anything
that we talked about so far?
>> Looking for your opinion on Redux, but
I'm assuming you're gonna get
into that intermediate react.
>> Correct, yeah,
if you wanna know my opinion on Redux,
you got to spend like another hour
with me in my course [LAUGH].
My one sentence opinion on is
typically you wanna use React context.
But there are use cases
where Redux really shines.
So there are places I still would use it.
They're just rare.
It's a fairly good way to put it, I think.
Well, thank you for sticking around for
the complete Intro To React.
This was really super fun to teach.
And I will catch you at
the complete Intro To React V8.
This is a fun course to teach and
yeah, hopefully you enjoy it.
>> [APPLAUSE]